		  The ntp Distribution Base Directory

This directory and its subdirectories contain the Network Time Protocol
Version 4 (NTP) distribution for Unix and Windows/NT systems.  This release
may still work on VxWorks, too.

The contents of the base directory are given in this file. The contents of
subdirectories are usually given in the README files in each subdirectory.

A complete explanation of the configure, compile and install process, as
well as setting up an NTP subnet, is in the HTML pages in the ./html/
directory.

The base directory ./ contains the autoconfiguration files, source
directories and related stuff:

COPYRIGHT	Excerpt from the HTML file ./html/copyright.html. This file
		specifies copyright conditions, together with a list of
		major authors and electric addresses.

INSTALL		Generic installation instructions for autoconf-based programs.
		Unless you really know what you are doing, you should read the
		directions in the HTML pages, starting with ./html/index.html.
		For Windows/NT, visit html/build/hints/winnt.html

NEWS		What's new in this release.

README		This file.

devel-docs	Documentation aimed at developers.

Makefile.am	Automake file configuration file. Edit only if you have the
		GNU automake and autoconf utilities installed.

Makefile.in	Autoconf make file template for Unix.

*.mf		Automake fragments created by the build sytem.  Safely ignorable.

adjtimed        Directory containing the sources for the adjtime daemon
		for HP/UX systems prior to HP-UX 10.0.

bootstrap	A script to initialize the build  system on first checkout.

clockstuff	Directory containing sources for miscellaneous programs
		to test certain auxiliary programs used with some kernel
		configurations, together with a program to calculate
		propagation delays for use with radio clocks and
		national time dissemination services such as WWV/WWVH,
		WWVB and CHU.

conf            Directory containing a motley collection of
		configuration files for various systems. For example only.

config.status	Script usable to recreate the current autotools xonfiguration.

config.h.in	Configuration file generated automatically from
		configure.in. Do not edit.

configure	Script used to configure the distribution. See the HTML pages
		(./html/index.html) for a complete description of the options
		available.

configure.ac	Master configuration template. Edit only if you have the
		GNU automake and autoconf utilities installed.

html            Directory containing a complete set of documentation on
		building and configuring a NTP server or client. The
		documentation is in the form of HTML files suitable for
		browsing and contains links to additional documentation
		at various web sites. If a browser is unavailable, an
		ordinary text editor can be used.

include		Directory containing include header files used by most
		programs in the distribution.

lib		Source code for third-party libraries included in the
		distribution.  Xurrently juat onme: isc, utilty code
		from Interactive Sytems Corporation.

libntp		Directory containing library source code used by most
		programs in the distribution.

ntpdate		Directory containing sources for a program to set the
		local machine time from one or more remote machines
		running NTP.  Operates like rdate, but much more accurate.

ntpq            Directory containing sources for a utility program to
		query local and remote NTP peers for state variables and
		related timekeeping information. This program conforms
		to Appendix A of the NTP Version 3 Specification RFC 1305.

ntptrace        Directory containing sources for a utility program that
		can be used to reveal the chain of NTP peers from a
		designated peer to the primary server at the root of the
		timekeeping subnet.

ports		Subdirectories of this contain code for non-Unix operating
		systems.  At present there is just one, for Windows.

scripts		Directory containing scripts to build the configuration
		files in this directory and then the makefiles used in
		various dependent directories. the subdirectories
		monitoring and support hold various perl and shell
		scripts for visualizing synchronization and daemon startup.

stamp.h.in	Configuration file generated automatically from configure.in.
		Do not edit.

tests		Self-test code.

util            Directory containing sources for various utility and
		testing programs.

