= README file for directory ./util of the NTP Version 4 distribution =

This directory contains the sources for the various utility programs.
See the README and RELNOTES files in the parent directory for directions
on how to make and install these programs.

Not much documentation, alas.  Read the header comments.

audio-pcm.c::
    Probe the capabilities of your sound card.  Assumes the SADA
    (Sun Audio Driver) interface from SunOS/Solaris, also implemented
    by *BSD and in the old OSS Linux sound layer.  Note: OpenSolaris
    changed its sound API away from SADA.

hist.c::
    This program can be used to calibrate the clock reading jitter of a
    particular CPU and operating system. It first tickles every element
    of an array, in order to force pages into memory, then repeatedly calls
    gettimeofday() and, finally, writes out the time values for later
    analysis. From this you can determine the jitter and if the clock ever
    runs backwards.

jitter.c::
    Can be used to determine the timing jitter due to
    the operating system in a gettimeofday() call.  For most systems the
    dominant contribution to the jitter budget is the period of the hardware
    interrupt, usually in the range 10 us-1 ms.  For those systems with
    microsecond counters, such as recent Sun and certain HP and DEC systems,
    the jitter is dominated only by the operating system.

kern.c::
   Header comment from deep in the mists of past time says: "This
   program simulates a first-order, type-II phase-lock loop using
   actual code segments from modified kernel distributions for SunOS,
   Ultrix and OSF/1 kernels. These segments do not use any licensed
   code."  Anybody who has a clue *why* it is doing this and what it's
   supposed to be used for should explain it to us, please.

ntptime.c::
    Checks the kernel configuration for the NTP user
    interface syscalls ntp_gettime() and ntp_adjtime().  If present, the
    current timekeeping data are displayed.  If not, a dissapointment is
    displayed.  See the kernel page file in the HTML documentation in
    distribution for further details. ntptime will be built be if configure
    believes your system can use it.

propdelay.c::
   Computes high frequency propagation delays, given the
   longitude and latitude of the transmitter and receiver.  Use
   this for WWV/H and CHU.  Don't use it for WWVB (the computation
   is easier for that).

pps-api.c:
   Try to run this program to see what the PPS-API (RFC 2783 kernel
   PPS interface) finds. You give it the device as argument and you
   may have to modify the pp.mode = BLA assignment.

precision.c::
   Measure the resolution of the system clock watching how the current time
   changes as we read it repeatedly.

sht.c::
    Test program for shared memory refclock.

testrs6000.c::
    The testrs6000.c program is used for testing purposes with the IBM
    RS/6000 AIX machines. Bill Jones <jones@chpc.utexas.edu> reports:
    "I could not get a tickadj of less than 40 us to work on a RS6000.
    If you set it less than 40 us do so at your own risk!" The RS6000
    is dead, but this is kept around as a way to bogon-test other kernels.

tickadj.c::
    Can be used to read and set various kernel parameters affecting NTP
    operations. See the tickadj page in the HTML documentation for further
    details.  tickadj will be built if configure believes your system can
    use it.

tg.c and tg2.c::
    These are tone generators.  They make audio signals that emulate WWV
    or IRIG (-B and -E).  tg runs on Solaris.  tg2 is a clone that runs on
    Linux, FreeBSD, and NetBSD.  Read the source for the fine print.  tg2
    has a help option available via -h.

// end
